# SoftSysCompilingCaterpillars

## How to Run

In the main directory, type:
```
make
```
This will compile the file:
```
/test/test3
```
Edit ```test3``` to create your own tree.

## Toy Compiler
The goal of this project was to develop a compiler. A compiler takes source code written in high level languages such as python and C and converts it into machine code which can be interpreted by the CPU of the computer. Compilers have a front-end and back-end interface. Our focus during this project was to implement the front-end of a compiler which consists of a lexer and parser. Our stretch goal was to implement a code generator back-end interface which we unfortunately were not able to accomplish. 

Our basic toy compiler performs arithmetic functions namely addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on floating numbers (one operation at a time - example 1 + 2 would yield 3) and assign numerical values to variables (example a = 4). It also has if/else statement and while loop interpretation functionality to perform advanced operations. 

## Lexer (lexer.h lexer.c)
Lexers are the first front-end component of compilers. A lexer intakes the source code and converts it to tokens where a token is a simplified representation of each component of the source code. For example, if a lexer is given “ 3 + 4” the tokens generated would be as follows:  “3” is a number token, “+” is an operator token,  and “4” is another number token.  

## Parser (parser.h parser.c)
Parsers are the second front-end component of compilers. A parser takes in tokens generated by the lexer and makes expressions from it to interpret the source code. In doing so, the parser creates an abstract syntax tree. 

## Code Generation 
The main back-end component is code generation which takes in the input from the parser and emits machine code which can be used by the CPU to actually perform the functions required by the source code. We were able to implement a rudimentary code generation code by walking through open source tutorials. However, these tutorials would only allow for this code to generate machine code for four arithmetic functions (+, -, /, * ). Due to time constraints, we were unable to develop this code to comply with the more advanced functions performed by our lexer and parser.  

# Navigating this Repository

Src - all source files. This is a functional implementation of our toy compiler including the lexer and parser files. Please note deep_copy.c is used to convert data stored from stack to heap to allow for dynamic memory allocation. 

Includes - all header files.

Test - test files and visualization file to draw the tree generated by the compiler in the parser stage. 

Resources - links and information regarding resources used o research compilers. 

Tutorials - walkthrough implementations of LLVM and open source lecture regarding compilers. (Please note the experimentation folder contains lexer and parser files from when we first attempted to merge LLVM and open source lecture code together. This folder is not our current compiler but rather a section where we got our hands dirty with compiler implementation. The intent to keep this folder is to demonstrate our work in the earlier stages of this project).

Reports - all formal written submissions pertaining to this project. 
